RHDEVDOCS-4448 - Restructure Phase 1 (#56096)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/logging-architecture-overview.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="logging-architecture-overview_{context}"]
= Logging architecture

The {logging} is made up of these logical components:

* `Collector` - Reads container log data from each node, forwards log data to configured outputs.

* `Store` - Stores log data for analysis; the default output for the forwarder.

* `Visualization` - GUI to search, query, and view stored logs.

These components are managed by Operators, and Custom Resource (CR) YAML files.

include::snippets/logging-log-types-snip.adoc[]

Either collector uses the following sources:

* journald for all system logs
* `/var/log/pods/\*.log` for all container logs

If you configure your log collector to collect audit logs, it gets them from `/var/log/audit/audit.log`. Audit logs from the Kubernetes API server are stored in the `/var/log/kube-apiserver/audit.log` file. Audit logs from the OpenShift API server are stored in the `/var/log/openshift-apiserver/audit.log` file. OVN logs are collected if available.

> The logging collector is a daemon set that deploys pods to each {product-title} node. System and infrastructure logs are generated by journald log messages from the operating system, the container runtime, and {product-title}. Node logs are generated by the node filesystem. Container logs are generated by the CRI-O container engine. The collector collects the logs from these sources and forwards them internally or externally as configured in the `ClusterLogForwarder` custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The logging collector is a daemonset that deploys pods to each {product-title} node. System and infrastructure logs are generated by journald log messages from the operating system, the container runtime, and {product-title}. Node logs are generated by the node filesystem. Container logs are generated by the CRI-O container engine. The collector collects the logs from these sources and forwards them internally or externally as configured in the `ClusterLogForwarder` custom resource.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="logging-architecture-overview_{context}"]
= Logging architecture

The {logging} contains 4 logical components:

* `Collector` - Reads container log data from each node.

* `Forwarder` -	Forwards log data to configured outputs.

* `Store` - Stores log data for analysis; the default output for the forwarder.

* `Visualization` - GUI to search, query, and view stored logs.

These components are managed by Operators, and Custom Resource (CR) YAML files.

include::snippets/logging-log-types-snip.adoc[]

Either collector uses the following sources:

* journald for all system logs
* `/var/log/pods/\*.log` for all container logs

> If you configure your log collector to collect audit logs, it gets them from `/var/log/audit/audit.log`. Audit logs from the Kubernetes API server are stored in the `/var/log/kube-apiserver/audit.log` file. Audit logs from the OpenShift API server are stored in the `/var/log/openshift-apiserver/audit.log` file. OVN logs are collected if available.

Reviewer 2: @jcantrill agreed again - e.g. in hypershift these paths are no longer accurate. If we want to make it clear what is in these logs, a link to the audit logging page in the k8s doc would be more helpful than the path.

> The logging collector is a daemon set that deploys pods to each {product-title} node. System and infrastructure logs are generated by journald log messages from the operating system, the container runtime, and {product-title}. Node logs are generated by the node filesystem. Container logs are generated by the CRI-O container engine. The collector collects the logs from these sources and forwards them internally or externally as configured in the `ClusterLogForwarder` custom resource.

Reviewer 2: "Container logs" is the most accurate term, since each log stream comes from the stdout/stderr of a single container. "Pod logs" is a commonly-used term, since k8s users tend to think more in terms of pods than containers and if  you're using `oc logs` you need to specify a Pod to get to the containers.
Maybe: "Container logs are generated by containers running in pods running on the cluster. Each container generates a separate log stream"
